- General Information

The caX device associated with a CI device behaves just like any other 
caX interface. You usually use it through a library like libdvben50221 
which is part of the dvb-apps package available at linuxtv.org.

But contrary to other hardware where the CI module is physically placed
in the data path between the the demod and PCIe bridge, in the Digital
Devices cards the CI module is separate hardware.
So, you have to feed data to the CI module by writing to the secX
(in later kernel ci0) device and read it back from the same secX device.
The advantage is that the CI module can be used with any data coming from
any frontend or file. The disadvantage is that the user application has to
write/read the data to/from the module by itself. 

The sample application apps/cit.c shows how to pipe a stream through
the CI interface. In its ouput it will show discontinuities. Those should 
only occur at the start of the program (due to old packets inside the CI 
interface hardware and the CI module itself) and when a CI module is
inserted or removed.

Since some users have problems using standard software which cannot use 
the CI interface in this way, there is now the redirect feature which allows 
you to tell the driver to automatically pass the data coming from one 
demod through a CI before offering it through the normal demux/dvr interface.
But note that this is a kludge to support old software until they can
use the new interface.
See docs/redirect for more info.


- Clock Speed

The normal clock speed for the TS output is 72 MHz wich is the standard
speed used for CI.

Packets are sent with an adjustable gap between the packets.
The gap size is (gap value * 2) + 4 or 0 if the gap is disabled.
So, the standard gap value of 4 leads to a gap of 12 bytes which means
that the effective data rate is (72*188)/200 = 67.68 MBits/s.

Depending on the hardware, the clock speed can be changed with the
ci_bitrate module parameter:

- Octopus CI, Octopus CI S2 Pro : supported

- old CI single flex modules: supported

- new dual CI flex module: not yet supported, use the standard 72000 kHz


Valid ranges for are from ... to 96000 KHz.
